   Welcome to the repository of the former MTC Medincom software! Here you
will find FDA, FDRec, SteelBox, and all other software that used to be sold
by MTC Medincom.
   
   How has this software come to be free? As you may know, FDA is a very
old program. The last time I did major work on it was three years ago, and
everything since then was just bugfixing and minor changes. The same is
true for all other software you'll find in this repository. Back when I was
actively working on FDA, I was making software for profit under the
historical name "MTC Medincom". Then from about two years ago I have
decided that making software for profit is very bad and unmoral, and I have
converted to free software. All my new works since then are free software.
However, FDA and a few other programs remained commercial for a while.
These programs were copy-protected, so converting them to free software
required actual work. Since by that time I was considering them pretty much
as discontinued software, I had just left them the way they had been for
years. But now I have realized that if I'm converting to free software, I
must convert the former MTC Medincom products as well, and so here they
are.
   
   You'll find the usable (if you can call them that) distributions in the
dist subdirectory and the sources in the src subdirectory. Each has its own
README file. Each distribution is a self-extracting archive. Just run it
and it will expand in the current directory. If an archive contains
subdirectories, they will be created automatically. No special command line
options are needed. In the golden days I used not to have to say this, but
since a lot of people these days use DOS ports of UNIX software or run DOS
emulators under UNIX, I have to remind you that this software is FOR DOS.
The self-extracting archives are DOS executables, all text files and
messages assume the IBM PC character set, all Russian texts assume the
Cyrillic version of the latter character set (recognized by GOST as
Alternative), and the line end sequence is <CR> <LF>.
   
   If you want to ask me a question, as of April 1998 my phone number in
the USA is 440-449-0299 and my ARPA Internet SMTP mail address is
<msokolov@blackwidow.cwru.edu>. Keep in mind, however, that all of this
software is DISCONTINUED and UNSUPPORTED.

<msokolov@ivan.Harhan.ORG>
   
   Happy hacking!
   
   Michael Sokolov
